You don't have a choice. AI is going to
disrupt in the most aggressive, violent
ways. If you're not in it, you're about
to get kicked out of all of it. You have
very successfully shifted latestage SAS
business to an AI first agentbased
business.
>> Finn is our AI agent. We'll pass 100
million error with Finn in less than
3/4.
>> Let's talk about how you made this
actually happen.
>> We were about to hit like 0,
which means we would have been in
negative growth territory. So JGBT
launches. Was it just like this is it?
We got to go all in on this thing. I
said we need to become a wartime
company. If we don't fight for this, we
are dead. I jumped hard on AI. But I
also restarted the culture. I rewrote
the values designed to be a sharp knife
to cut out the parts of the company that
I just knew wouldn't be effective.
>> If you're trying to make the shift and
it's just not moving, you may need to go
hardcore founder mode. The way that
greatness is created is that you find a
CEO who's willing to make brave hard
decisions and own the results. What
percentage of the employees kind of
turned over during this period?
>> Ultimately like 40%. You said there was
a a soft coup. Is there more you could
share about that?
Today my guest does own McCabe. This is
the first in a series of conversations
that I'm having with founders who have
successfully transformed their
established SAS or marketplace
businesses into an AI first company that
is growing like crazy and overtaking
their decade plus old business. So many
companies and product teams and founders
are trying to navigate this very tricky
time where every industry is being
disrupted by AI. And my goal here is to
help you essentially disrupt yourself
before somebody else does. The story of
Intercom's transformation into Finn is
incredible. Their traditional business
was valued at billions of dollars, was
making hundreds of millions of dollars
in ARR, but growth started to plateau
and was even about to go negative. 6
weeks after GPT3.5 came out, they had a
working prototype of what is now Finn
and Owen and the team decided to go
allin on AI. Today, Finn is growing like
crazy, already at 8 digits in ARR, and
Intercom is on track to be growing
faster than every public software
company by next year. In our
conversation, Owen gets very real and
honest about what it takes to win right
now. What he had to do to turn the ship
around at Intercom in spite of a lot of
push back and even a soft coup attempt,
what he believes people still don't
understand about what is happening in
software and AI, and so much more. If
you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to
subscribe and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. Also, if you
become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of a
bunch of incredible products, including
lovable, replet, bold, nadent, linear,
superhuman, vcript, whisper flow, gamma,
perplexity, warp, granola, magic
patterns, raycast, chapardd, and mobin.
Check it out at lennisnewsletter.com and
click bundle. With that, I bring you
Owen McCabe. This episode is brought to
you by Great Question, the all-in-one UX
research platform loved by teams at Bs,
Canva, into it, and more. One of the
most common things I hear from PMs and
founders that I talk to is, "I know I
should be speaking to customers more,
but I just don't have the time or the
tools." That's exactly the gap Great
Question fills. Great Question makes it
easy for anyone on your team, not just
researchers, to recruit participants,
run interviews, send surveys, test
prototypes, and then share it all with
powerful video clips. It's everything
you need to put your customers at the
center of your product decisions. With a
prompt as simple as, "Why did users
choose us over competitors?" Great
question not only reveals what your
customers have already shared, but it
also makes it incredibly easy to ask
them in the moment for fresh insights
from the right segment. Picture this.
Your road map's clear, your team's
aligned, you're shipping with
confidence, and you're building exactly
what your customers need. Head to
greatquest.com/lenny
to get started. This episode is brought
to you by works. If you're building a
SAS app, at some point your customers
will start asking for enterprise
features like SAML authentication and
skim provisioning. That's where Work OS
comes in, making it fast and painless to
add enterprise features to your app.
Their APIs are easy to understand so
that you can ship quickly and get back
to building other features. Today,
hundreds of companies are already
powered by Work OS, including ones you
probably know like Versel, Web Flow, and
Loom. WorkOS also recently acquired
Warrant, the fine grain authorization
service. Warrant's product is based on a
groundbreaking authorization system
called Zanzibar, which was originally
designed for Google to power Google Docs
and YouTube. This enables fast
authorization checks at enormous scale
while maintaining a flexible model that
can be adapted to even the most complex
use cases. If you're currently looking
to build role-based access control or
other enterprise features like single
signon, skim or user management, you
should consider work OS. It's a drop-in
replacement for Ozero and supports up to
1 million monthly active users for free.
Check it out at workos.com to learn
more. That's works.com.
[Music]
Thank you so much for being here and
welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you. Great to be here.
>> You have done something quite
extraordinary with intercom something
that a lot of founders and product teams
are trying to do which is to navigate
this very scary disruption that's
happening as a result of AI to most
businesses. You have very successfully
shifted uh as you described a latestage
SAS business to an AI first agentbased
very successful business.
I want to use this time to extract as
much as I can out of your journey so
that people that are trying to navigate
this and having a hard time can uh have
less pain, less suffering and and
hopefully get to something that works to
give people a sense of just how well
things have gone. Can you share some
stats about the current state of the
business, how it's gone? Currently
across the business, you know, we we
benchmark ourselves against all the
public software companies. There's like
120 something B2B software companies.
We're like in the 15th percentile for AR
growth. So we're up there. Finn, which
is our AI agent, which is, you know, the
future of the business, the thing that
will disrupt the old business. It's, you
know, growing north of 300%.
It took off really fast like all these
other AI companies you hear of. The
first year it grew from 1 to 12 million
air or we're now in solid mid
8 or growth there. We'll pass 100
million air or with Finn in less than
3/4. And yeah, Finn, you know, we're in
the customer experience category with
Finn. So, it's one of these agents that
helps do all your customer work. And
they all started with service. And in
that category, we are the biggest by
customer count, biggest by revenue, best
by performance benchmarks. We win all
our head-to-heads and our direct
competitor bake offs. We're rated number
one in G2. So, I think we're doing we're
doing pretty well. We're doing far
better than we imagined at this point.
>> Okay. Uh this sounds like the dream for
a lot of founders especially ones that
are stuck with their existing business
that isn't going very far. So let's get
to that. Let's talk about the beginning
of this journey. You had a business that
was working. People used it loved it
over over 100 million AR I believe. Talk
about just the state of the business at
the point roughly when you decided I
really need to make a big change and go
AI AI first.
>> It was already in the hundreds of
millions. Intercom is 14 years in
change. Now part of the story is that in
2020 I had been sick for a couple years.
The background is I had mold toxins and
later I found out that I had got a tick
bite and that messed me up. And so I
left the CEO role in 2020
and
you know a lot of the mistakes I had
been making when I was sick got worse.
We became what a lot of latestage
software companies are today which is
bit bloated.
We lost some energy. Our strategy was
diluted and unfocused. We're trying to
do all the things for all the people. We
didn't know what problems we were really
solving and for who. And the result was
very slow revenue growth in like the low
singledigit percent.
And I was away for two years unsatisfied
with where the business was going. We
had this postcoid sugar rush which a lot
of big companies at that stage did in
2021. Everyone's valuation and revenue
was through the roof. And that hit a lot
of problems in a lot of these companies.
And we had five quarters of successive,
you know, sequential
decline in our net new error. And we
were about to hit like zero dollars net
new error, which means we would have
been in negative growth territory. We
never got there. I managed to stop it
before we got there, but we were falling
each quarter. And I found that I
despite my wishes to go and have new
adventures, still had a lot of pride for
this damn thing
and didn't want to see it end in a
way that was so different from the way
it started. Started with so much hope
and optimism like so many companies do
and it was about to fade away. So that
was when I felt like I need to go back
and I need to make a change. I went back
and one month later chat GBT was
announced. So it would be really neat
and tidy to be able to say that the AI
transformation came. I knew I couldn't
be on the sidelines. I had to save this
thing from the coming disruption.
Actually, I got whacked across the head
by this AI thing. But it also ended up
being a gift.
>> Okay. So JBT launches. Was it just like
this is it, we got to go all in on this
thing or was it like let's watch this
thing. How quickly was it clear that
this is the future, this isn't working
what we're doing? We and I were very
lucky in that we had an AI group
already.
We were in the customer communication
business chiefly doing customer service.
We were building bots, but they were
rudimentary AI. We had a bunch of our
own machine learning that did Q&A for
customer service, but it required a
phenomenal amount of setup and was kind
of crappy.
But we had a number of AI engineers in
the company already. And so when
GPT3.5 came out, they said, "This is
different." And it didn't take long for
people to start to imagine that this is
going to be pretty disruptive to
service. And it started where we
imagined that this was going to just
wreck everyone selling seats, everyone
in the conventional SAS game. And we
believed that was quite possible for
some couple years after that moment.
But we were only 6 weeks into
the launch of GPD 3.5 when we actually
had a beta version of Finn. So I got a
text from Dez, my co-founder
a week or so after the launch of GPT3.5
and he said the AI team have something
interesting and they actually think we
could make a product out of this and
this was long before there's now like no
doubt 100 service agents. we had
something very early working and and
part of what we had to our advantage
also was that we had this giant base 300
you know sorry 30,000 paying customers
with you know hundreds of thousands of
active users you know millions of their
users billions of data points so we had
a lot to play with
and so we jumped on it and now obviously
it's fun to tell that once again as a
you know to to to to support the idea of
this brave maverick move and I won't
discount the fact that we were brave,
but we we're coming from a point of
having nothing to lose. So, you know,
like we certainly are unique. I I don't
know a a single company of our size and
age that has pivoted this hard to AI and
being as successful as we have been, but
we also previously were screwed. We were
in a really tough spot, so had no
choice. So, I'll take the kudos and
credit, but also have a lot of empathy
for companies that weren't as in as much
trouble as we were. And so, tried to
thread the needle and sustain the old
business while adding to it with the new
AI stuff. Something I heard from someone
that worked at Intercom, correct me if
this is not correct, you've always been
very anti-bot in the customer support
business because it just you didn't like
how impersonal it was. It just didn't
feel like the way you wanted to build a
business. And then now that's what you
do. talk about just that transition.
>> Yeah, I know it's a it's a fun and
ironic
twist. Um, our mission from the early
days was make internet business
personal. And when I came back and we
started to lean into AI, I started to
wonder, does that mission make any sense
anymore?
Now, part of our lean into AI is that we
had no choice. Not only for the
business, we needed something new, but
also we saw that this is the future and
you can't fight the future. You must be
part of it. And so, okay, we're
going to be part of it. And
ultimately, and it's very easy to tell
yourself these little stories. So, I'm
open to anyone telling me this is
But when I interrogate myself,
my soul, and my mind, I don't think it
is.
When I interrogate my heart, and my
mind, I don't think it is. But I I'm now
of the belief that
providing a customer with a highly
engaged, instantly available, expert,
consistent, fast, charismatic, funny,
friendly, personal agent
available for literally every single
customer at every minute of the day
around the clock is so much more
personal than making them wait two 3 4
days for a crappy canned response. And
so
that's the irony and the magic and the
wonder of AI. Even if it does make us
ask some hard questions of ourselves and
think carefully about its impact on
humanity,
it actually
is superior at the things we describe as
personal and human relative to humans
themselves.
And so that that's where I'm at today.
Yeah, maybe it's a bunch of fancy
postrationalization,
but honestly, that's that's really where
I stand.
>> Yeah, I think I think data has shown
people often prefer not to talk to
humans to just to solve problems that
can just be solved. Like, it's it's it's
a lot of stress to try to figure out how
to talk to some support agent that
doesn't know anything about what's going
on.
>> Yes. And the AI is just better. Look at
Whimo. So, Whimo doesn't crash. It has 3
5 times less crashes than humans.
It doesn't bother you or bug you. I like
a chat with an Uber driver as much as
the next guy, but not always. It doesn't
have hygiene problems, doesn't take
wrong turns. I mean, it just doesn't do
all these things that really bug people.
And it's really interesting to see Uber
now offer
women the option to call only female
drivers.
And I guarantee the reason they're doing
that is because women love Whimo because
they feel safer. Like AI is so often
superior. And humans are going to be far
better at all the things. I'm prohum. I
love humans. I really want humans in the
mix for
all things in the rest of my life. But
when it comes to practical, productive,
efficient, and effective value, the glue
in between the human parts of our lives,
I actually want AI and robotics. Before
we start talking about how you actually
made this transformation a success, one
other piece of history is just your
pricing strategy historically has been
not liked by people. For example, I once
had a Twitter poll or a survey on my
newsletter just like what products do
you pay the most for of all your SAS
products income was by far the most. I
know people constantly complain about
just how unclear it was and how high it
was and now you guys are at the
forefront of how to price AI products.
So, we're going to get to that, but just
talk about the lessons and what happened
there with pricing back in the day.
>> Yeah. So, I want to just validate your
survey data. Yes, people abhored our
pricing. Uh, it was a meme. There were
like actual funny popular viral memes on
Twitter that were making fun of our
pricing.
Part of the problem,
if not all the problem, well, there's
two problems. One was our strategy.
Super unfocused. As you said, we're
trying to do all the things for all the
people. And when you're trying to do all
the things for all the people, your
efforts to capture all that different
types of value are going to necessitate
pretty complex pricing. If you're like
customer service and you're selling
seats and you're doing outbound
messaging and you need to charge for
messages and you're doing like SDR
messenger on a website, you need to
charge for leads already. That's just
metrics in every direction. And then if
you're trying to sell to many different
sizes of customers, you need tiers and
gates and it just became a behemoth. So
part of the problem was the unfocused
strategy. And then the other part of the
problem was an unwillingness to
frankly make bold decisions, say no,
pick a lane and actually take pain in
the short term for the long term. We
rolled out this new pricing and this is
even before the Finn pricing you're
talking about. when I came back and I
said, "Yes, we're going to lose a lot of
revenue here." Like, I can't remember
how much we wrote down, but we actually
have already given away something like
something like $50 million in AORA.
We've reduced the prices for a lot of
customers just to give them way simpler
pricing because surprise surprise, when
people feel like they have far simpler,
more predictable, fairer pricing,
they'll stick around longer and it
creates so much more ease in the company
and promotes a healthier relationship
with the customer too. When our people
saw that we were screwing customers
effectively in every direction, it
starts to erode the idea that we care
about our customers and then they make
other customer unfriendly decisions. And
so one of the values I promoted when I
came back was that we would be customer
obsessed. And so we had to kill our own
our old pricing and give away a lot of
revenue. So that was the the the spirit
behind the changes, but we can talk
about the fin pricing if you want to.
Also,
>> let's save that because that's a really
important topic that I think people need
to hear.
>> Let's talk about the the shift and how
you made this actually happen. You make
you make it sound like oh
>> like not fully, but it's oh, we had to
do like it wasn't working anyway. We
there's no risk to go all in on this AI
thing. You're making $150 million a year
AR. You're worth at least a billion
dollars at that point, right? As a
business. Yeah. I mean multiple billions
of we were making more money than that.
So we were like okay multiple hundreds
of millions. Yeah.
>> Okay. Very difficult to actually do you
know even if things don't feel like
they're growing anywhere. So first of
all just what was the moment if there
was one of just like okay the six week
experiment of someone building Finn
internally was was that being like this
is it or was there another moment of
like let's go all in on this? It was the
combination of the company being older,
us all, me and the founders being
impatient
like are we going to make something out
of this? We went through a time when the
company is worth a lot. We're private so
we don't have like a daily mark to
market but all the other public software
companies dropped 80%.
85 90%. We saw our revenue growth
crater. We were used to nice double
digits. we were in low single digits.
And so part of it was like let's do
something here. Another part of it was
my own kind of anger and dissatisfaction
with how the company was being run and
the mistakes that I made myself. I made
a lot of compromises as a lot of
founders and founding CEOs do toate
employees or do it out of fear
to bring investors along.
you know, following advice in the
industry in best practices. You know,
you betray your intuition in little
bits and pieces over the years when the
bright spark of your original idea turns
into this big unstoppable
scary corporate beast and a little bit
of you dies every single time you go and
portray yourself in that way. I it's
very like you you know if you could pick
in your mind three or four tech darlings
from 10 years ago when you meet the CEO
and talk to them privately very few of
them feel outstanding about the state of
their culture and the decisions that
they make and the way in which they have
to work. All of them have betrayed
themselves in little ways. And I was I
had left the business. I was super sick.
I was burned out frankly from the
revenue even having started to slow down
before I left. I had been attacked
unfairly in the press. Just all of me
was just fed up. And I decided to take a
very authoritarian top-down aggressive
founder first approach to all the
things. And I found that deeply
cathartic. And that was the thing that
led to me in in part. The other was just
good oldfashioned logic and the other
was desperation saying we're doing the
AI thing. The AI thing exciting and and
and sex exciting and sexy. We need some
new energy thing here. The new AI thing
makes sense. And also just my intuition
says go for it. And so you know when
people tell these stories they rewrite
history in their minds for the stories
to be elegant and also so that they
support their own self arrandized
narratives about their brilliance.
Actually it's a big messy cocktail of
things. And anyway that's my attempt at
explaining the cocktail. I saw a stat
that when you first launched, when you
first had this kind of prototype, you
were losing money on every transaction
that you're charging like a dollar. You
cost you $120, something like that.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> 120 cents. Okay.
>> So, there's a lot of vision here if this
is going to get to a place where this
actually will be great and affordable.
You know, it's really funny like we
charge 99 cent to resolve
tickets, you know, customer problems and
we have a higher resolution rate than
anyone else and we are very proud of
that and we obsess over that. It is the
metric by which these agents are
assessed and we wanted our revenue to be
100% aligned with the value that they
attained because we had all this scar
tissue from pricing prior that felt
unfair to customers and we so we said
what's the most fair that we can
possibly fathom. Now when we did all our
research we found that many SAS
businesses were spending between 20 and
$30 per ticket resolve. We were spending
22. Now consumer businesses maybe they
go down to $5. We we were thinking like,
can we charge $10? That seems fair. It's
half price. Can we charge $5? Can we
even charge $25?
But early on, we started to sense that
people just wouldn't value the digital
work as much as the human work. even
though the digital work is better, more
consistent, always available, makes the
customer far happier. And so we actually
started to lean into a price that we
thought would be, you know, was the
nexus between us earning the most and it
being the most palatable. We basically
said that if someone is not prepared to
pay 99 cent for us to rapidly and
elegantly, perfectly and excellently
solve their customer's problem. We need
to wrap this up. We don't have a
business here. So that was where the 99
cent came from. And and I always believe
that value should that pricing should
come from value and not from cost. Cost
is our problem. And we just had this
sense and intuition early on that this
thing will get cheaper. And it got a lot
cheaper. And so, you know, you know, the
margin moves around, but we we make a
margin that makes this more than worth
our while. And we know our customers get
an excellent deal and are able to
deliver able to deliver to their
customers a level of service that they
never could before.
>> That's a very clear pitch. We just had a
Mavon on the podcast and the pricing
expert and he has this phrase
beautifully simpler pricing is where you
want to get to. Also, he's a huge fan of
outcome based pricing which is what
you're describing here where you pay for
outcome. So, you guys are in the magic
quadrant of his pricing advice.
>> Yes. Thank god our pricing are over
>> finally.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, going back to how you actually
did this thing. So, you basically you
just you described what many people
think of now as founder mode. just top
down as you said the truth and just
here's what we're doing. We're not going
to sit around waiting for you to give me
ideas. How did what did you do? What did
that look like internally?
Um you know there was a couple things.
One was we were burning a lot of money
so I cut a lot of costs aggressively
canned a bunch of different projects. We
had this like big glorious office we
were about to fit out and I'm like we're
about to hit negative growth territory.
Like stop it. And a lot of companies
were really stuck in the prior world
where they just were used to being super
successful, rich and wealthy and spent
like drunken sailors. So I stopped all
of that. Got really frugal in ways I
never thought I would. I still haven't
touched the interior design of this
office I'm in here even though though I
call it the hotel Marriott. Um sick of
it anyway. That was one. Another was I
picked the lane strategically. We were
all over the place and I said, "We're
doing service." Zenesk had been acquired
a couple years prior. They were
strategically, energetically, culturally
dead. They were upsetting customers in
the market. There's an opportunity
there. We're doing service. Forget all
the other stuff. Even though there was a
lot of people in the company saying,
"Well, we still have $80 million
of AO orb that we're getting from the
other thing and we're really good at
that and there's a big opportunity.
There's other companies in this space
worth billions." It was, you know, the
type of decision that where I to
practice the professional CEO approach,
which is, hey folks, what do you all
think? Let's take everyone's input.
Let's put it all down on a spreadsheet.
Everyone out of color beside all of the
different options that we may take.
Let's make a group decision. I said,
"Sorry, this is what we're doing." So, I
was very dictatorial in that respect. We
had no one making decisions. So,
somebody needed to even if I had some
qualms about the decisions myself. I
couldn't predict the future, but someone
had to make a call. You know, obviously,
as soon as AI came around, I jumped hard
on AI and announced that we were going
to spend nearly $100 million of our own
cash on that. Reallocated a lot of
capital, but I also restarted the
culture. We had just a very comfortable
culture as a lot of companies did. There
was a lot of focus on social issues and
a lot of complaining and
dissatisfaction.
And I rewrote the values designed to be
a sharp knife to cut out the parts of
the company that I just knew wouldn't be
effective. So I said that people must be
resilient, that we had very high
standards, that we'd work incredibly
hard, that shareholder value was the
most important thing that we'd optimize
for. A lot of things that were
controversial for this prior crowd. And
then I designed these quarterly
performance processes where not only
would you get a mark or a grade for your
performance against your goals that
quarter, but you'd also get a score for
your behavior against the values. And I
hardcoded a formula myself. And so I
took it out of the manager's hands to
say if people got below a certain mark,
respectfully and lovingly, we would say,
"Thank you for your service. We're going
to go forward without you." And so you
do that just a small number of quarters
and you can start to shape an
organization that's designed and the
image of the values you want to create.
And obviously there was a lot of pain, a
lot of satisfaction. There was attempts
at soft coup. There was letters sent to
the board. People really unhappy. But on
the other side of it,
the people left were
the most incredible,
entrepreneurial,
brave, inspiring, happy individuals you
could possibly imagine. And then you
hire in their image. We ran an anonymous
employee survey like I think 15 or 16
months after I started aggressively
working through the or rebuilding the or
rebuilding the culture and we had a 98
to 99% approval of management leadership
and new strategy and this is coming from
me having the lowest glass door rating
for a CEO I had ever seen when I came
back. So I I I just want to explain that
like being that deliberate about your
culture and upsetting a lot of people is
the path through which you can create a
culture where people are super happy,
super engaged, super aligned and now we
have just this highly performant
organization. Yes, we're messy in many
ways. So that was a big part of it too.
So it was kind of strategically picking
a lane,
you know, remaking how we go to market.
The pricing was a really, really big
piece that had a big effect.
Betting on AI and then culture. And I
kind of buried the AI thing because
frankly none of this would matter if we
didn't bet on AI. So the story could all
be summed up by saying when you ask what
did I do? It was that we we built Finn
and that changed everything. You said
that this was very unpopular. I imagine
many people were not happy with all the
change and how top down this was. You
said there was a a soft coup. Is there
more you could share about that? I've
never heard that story. When you make
that degree of change and you tell
people that they're in control like we
did in the previous generation of late
stage businesses, there's going to be
some friction when you change the rules.
And it's my strong belief that great
employees and great companies want and
are constructed out of a very clear and
strong hierarchy where it is the
responsibility of the CEO to make brave
and hard decisions unilaterally. Yes,
using their experts as inputs and be
responsible for the outcome. If I make
decisions that propel the company in the
way that thankfully
my decisions have, I get rewards and
kudos and I get to go back to the board
and say I want a bigger grant. If I
don't, I get fired and I should get
fired. If my big brave unilateral
decisions put us in the toilet, then I
have to take responsibility for that
also. So that's how in my humble opinion
it should work. And I, for one, don't
know of a great company that doesn't
work that way. You'll see from time to
time, I did this a couple years ago,
people will construct these indexes of
the performance of companies that are
founderled. And of course, this is a
self-s serving statement, but it's also
true. And surprise surprise, the founder
companies perform substantially better
because they have the moral authority
and the willingness to take the risks
that the professional CEOs don't have
the remit for.
the professional CEOs are typically told
don't mess things up and the founders
are bored if they're not taking the risk
of of messing things up from time to
time and so that's in my opinion what
creates greatness and great innovation
but like I said there will be friction
change in a company that's configured
for democracy and committee decisions
and soft and gentle interactions and
communication to be properly founderled
and top down So a big lesson here is if
you're trying to make the shift and it's
just not moving, there's a lot of
resistance, you may need to go hardcore
founder mode and make some significant
change. What percentage of the the
employees kind of turned over during
this period?
>> Could be something ultimately like 40%.
Um so it's a big big turnover over some
couple number of years. You know, often
the culture is set by a very small
number of people. So, it only took a
quarter to really start to change the
tenure of the uh the tenor of the
conversations
that were happening, but to bring in the
people that were that new level of
ambition and wanted to work as hard as
the rest of us and
work in a mature and engaged and excited
way. That took a little longer time. You
know, there's such a thing as product
market fit. There's a thing as founder
product market fit. You know, that's how
you're doing it, right? But there's also
such a thing as employee founder product
market fit. You have to have the right
employees for the type of business
you're creating. And there are companies
that want the need to be more stable and
they're going to want the need to hire
more stable individuals. There's going
to be companies that want to do the
highly collaborative,
more democratic thing. I wouldn't invest
in them, but there's companies that want
to do it. If you're an employee that
enjoys that, there are a lot of
positions out there. There are big
companies like Google that do that.
There are startups that hire the crazy,
you know, young, wild, messy,
early startup people and that's great
for them and the company too. So it's
really all about having the right
individuals. And when you create that,
not only do you create great success,
but you just create a lot more happiness
and balance and harmony. You know,
ultimately the employees who wanted a
more, you know, gentle democratic
environment, they're not going to be
happy in a company like Intercom or
Coinbase or any of these strong
organizations. They'll be more happy
somewhere else. So even if it requires a
little bit of a loving push out the
door, I know that you're actually doing
them a favor in the medium to long run.
>> I was going to say that a lot of these
people will be happier working at a
different company.
>> Who wants to go to war every day with
your organization and in Slack? That's
just not fun. It's not good for the
nervous system or the soul.
>> Yeah. So this whole period sounds very
stressful for you. Did you ever regret
coming back and just like what the hell
did I get myself into? What am I What am
I doing to myself?
>> I never regretted coming back,
but I have many moments where I don't
enjoy the job. I didn't I didn't regret
coming back because it was deeply
cathartic for me. When a founder runs
away from their business, it is the
ultimate betrayal of, you know, their
heart and the dream that they have. Now,
it's okay to wrap things up and quit,
but when you kind of run away, like I
kind of had to cuz I was sick and burned
out and and and kind of disenchanted, I
don't know, it didn't feel good. So
especially when I had done that having
betrayed in a million or a thousand
small ways my intuition there was
something I needed to exercise. So it
has been deeply meaningful in that
respect. And then of course I'm
fortunate that it worked out. I get to
be on the second most popular podcast in
tech. I get to like pat myself on the
back in front of all these people. Who
wouldn't want that? That said,
the reality is that for particularly
people like me who like the adventure
and the, you know, high agency,
you know, unilateral
dayto-day
movement where you're trying to make big
wild bold decisions. The reality is that
if you're successful, most your days
will not be that. It'll be reviewing the
bonus policy for next year and
reviewing, you know, the comp proposal
for your execs for the next year. It
will be, you know, showing up for
accountability meetings and stepping
through the status of different work
streams. It'll be rushing from meeting
to meeting having 8 n 10 meetings a day.
I don't happen to believe that that's a
great way to live your life. It'll be
trying to get to all the emails you need
to get to such that all those people
aren't offended and hurt and you know
trying to communicate in the ways with
your staff and your team that is
empathetic and thoughtful and keeps in
mind that they may be having as a
day as you are. like
it's not, you know, you're giving me an
opportunity to paint the story of this,
you know, maverickled adventure that you
might imagine in a comic like, you know,
like I'm for some reason picturing
Tintin, you know, sail the seas, you
know, this swashbuckling adventure. It's
not it's corporate life kind of sucks,
particularly for people like me. So I
have many of those days. And so the only
reason I'm still around is that I have a
broader mission that makes it worthwhile
for now. And that's why you see so many
of our best founders get to a point
where they're like, "Okay, I've had
enough corporate fun." So that's the
most authentic answer I could give you.
No regrets coming back, but plenty of
pain on a day-to-day basis.
Today's episode is brought to you by DX,
the developer intelligence platform
designed by leading researchers to
thrive in the AI era. Organizations need
to adapt quickly. But many organization
leaders struggle to answer pressing
questions like which tools are working?
How are they being used? What's actually
driving value? DX provides the data and
insights that leaders need to navigate
this shift. With DX, companies like
Dropbox, Booking.com, Adion, and
Intercom get a deep understanding of how
AI is providing value to their
developers and what impact AI is having
on engineering productivity. To learn
more, visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
One of the interesting things about this
space of agents, there's all stock
agents are taking over. It's the future
of software. SAS is going to be replaced
with agents. CX is like a classic. It
just feels like like I imagine looking
forward it was not obvious. Now looking
back it's like obviously this is an
amazing place for agents to take over
work but there's always this talk of
agents will do everything and all the
SAS software is going to be replaced by
agents. You have a sense of just like
how far this disruption will go outside
of CX because it's already happening in
your businesses. The first thing I'll
say is that
CX
is deceptively
large given it's hidden behind just two
words, two letters. You know, customer
experience really is service, success,
sales, and marketing. In my opinion,
it's all engagement with all customers.
It's the biggest
part by headcount of any business, any
consumer business and any B2B business.
The biggest organizations are sales,
service, success. So
I'll talk about things other than CX in
a moment, but I want to emphasize that
CX is
a the majority of business operations.
Of course, it'll go beyond CX. Any uh
function that requires a lot of
repetitive operational
mechanical work will be automated.
Whether it's chasing or collecting or
issuing invoices, it could be onboarding
or offboarding employees.
You know, there are so many repetitive
jobs in an organization that it'll start
to replace. One of the
interesting questions is how much will
be generic
operations bots? How much will be expert
agents? You know, there are expert
agents for law and contract review.
There'll probably be expert agents for
accounting. Um, but you'll need the glue
in between all of these agents, too. But
future organizations will be agents
everywhere.
I
have spent quite a bit of time thinking
about what does it all look like in the
future. And,
you know, I imagine it as a medalley of
humans and agents. And I don't think
it's obviously going to be humans on the
top and the agents all on the in the AC
ro IC roles. I think that'll be more of
a complex mix where you're going to
have,
you know, people that are like managers
and leaders, but they'll be in IC roles
working with agents to configure them
for success and monitor and manage their
progress, kind of add that oversight and
cover for edge cases. And so, you know,
I think we're going to be surprised in
which the way that these organizations
go. They'll definitely be smaller.
They'll be flatter because of that. I I
won't be surprised if there are agents
at the highest level, too. I mean, I've
been thinking about how and we do have a
great human chief of staff here, but
imagine a future human chief of staff
that
like understands your priorities and
actually talks to you and does a
check-in each day and reaches out to
different people and asks for updates
and uh helps organize your priorities
and helps you remember who you need to
keep accountable. You know, clearly
there's an opportunity for that. And so
you can imagine agents in specific roles
like customer service in operational
roles being glue and in being kind of
like co-pilot or assistant roles like
that which I mentioned. But I you know
what I think that all brings is just
epic levels of
efficiency.
It's going to be super deflationary.
There'll be a lot more competition.
AI itself is insanely
competitive right now. It's so intense
in a way that was never before. That's
going to come to all industries when so
much of their inner workings becomes
automated. And ultimately, I think it's
going to be great for the consumer.
They'll have more options, cheaper
options,
and I can't but see that be great for
the economy. a lot of economic lubricant
as it were and a lot of new movement and
activity. And if we were to really go
off the reservation, but I'll stop here.
That means that we need more humans,
too. We need population growth to show
up for this big growth economically.
And yeah, I just see the hum the future
as just a beautiful collaboration
between humans and agents in every
direction.
>> I love the optimism. Uh someone
described this once as a a society uh
what is it agentic society
>> where it's us and agents living together
>> right
>> this begs the question around just jobs
we had Mark Beni off on the podcast he's
you know all agent force agent force
agent force and I asked him just like
what jobs do you think are going away
he's just like CX going away gone sales
not going away we need sales people just
what's your sense I know it's like a
touchy subject no one ever wants to say
jobs are going away but just what's your
sense of where jobs might disappearing
more most.
>> Yeah. Well, I don't find it to be
particularly touchy because jobs have
always gone away
>> and technology has done a really good
job at stealing jobs that were
repetitive, demeaning, dangerous.
We have less people losing limbs in
dangerous factories or dying and
suffocating down mines because of the
technology that we now have available to
us. people breaking their backs on farms
um
uh or just doing things that's highly
demeaning to the great beautiful
creative potential of each human
individual life. So I won't apologize
for competing with or competing for
work because all the while technology
has done that in the past. population
has increased, GDP has increased,
longevity,
um crime rates have diminished in the
western world, the world that has
enjoyed the most technology. So we have
no good reason to not believe that that
won't continue. Even while there is
difficulty and there has been in the
past, no doubt people who were gainfully
employed in dangerous work in mines had
to find new work and so uh I don't take
that for granted but I think that this
is part of the long arc of humanity
flourishing and getting healthier and
happier. Um what are the work the types
of work that will go away? It's all the
demeaning crappy stuff and and that
exists in, you know, digital businesses.
You ask a human to sit at a keyboard
answering the same question day in day
out and you get to a point where you
don't even ask them to answer the
question manually. You ask them to click
the button that brings up the macro.
Like what a horrible use of a human
life. I've met thousands of people that
have worked at the intercom, a broad
range of talents, people who they might
not describe themselves as particularly
high IQ. Maybe they're were suited at
that point in their life for this highly
repetitive work. you talk to them for
two or three minutes, you'll see the
bright spark of a beautiful human that
if I if they got to do the right thing,
they would light up and bring so much
happiness and joy to the world. And so,
like, that's the mission we're all on.
I'm not polyianish here, like I said,
and I'm suggesting that there won't be
friction, but for the most part, we're
doing good.
And to get specific, there will be CX
roles and a lot of basic repetitive
roles. there is a lot of repetitive
stuff in sales and so you'll you'll do
more sales with less people and there
are SDR roles qualifying you know basic
questions you're not going to need as
many people in sales organizations so
I'm a little misaligned with Mark in
that respect but what he's getting at is
that what sales people bring to the
table is human connection and trust and
that is not about to go away anytime
soon uh and thank God for
I had uh Ben man, the co-founder of
Anthropic on the podcast recently and he
said that he's like even my job is uh
probably going to go at some point. He's
like, Lenny, your job is going to be
replaced by AI at some point. That was
pretty uh compelling. Did not expect him
to say that.
>> Yeah, I don't know. I I like it will in
many ways. We're going to have agents
and AI to aggregate content and create
content. But humans,
as much as when it comes to
productivity, value efficiency,
efficiency is not the number one thing
that we value. You know, if efficiency
was the number one thing we value, I'd
always buy the cheapest clothes,
furniture, computers, even paper for my
printer. But I think humans value things
like beauty
and human stories
and human heart and connection.
And
not only will they still want those and
they'll still want a Lenny that his has
his own story and his own take and
opinions and is a little imperfect,
but they'll pay more for it. The
abundance of AI
is going to make automated things
worth zero. Just like
you the value of cheap content on
YouTube.
Why do people subscribe
to some channels and pay more? Why do
people pay to rent movies?
Because some things have more quality,
more beauty, more craft, more art, more
humanity. So, I think there'll always be
a place for that. Few. All right. I got
a couple more years at least.
>> Yeah. Before I move on to a different
topic, just kind of reflecting back on
this shift to Finn and the success that
you've had, are there any other just
lessons that we haven't touched on that
you think might be helpful for folks
that are trying to go through this
journey?
>> You know, I think it's ultimately that
you don't have a choice. Uh my
co-founder Dez is writing a book at the
moment and that's core to the idea here.
You don't have a choice.
The story of the technology industry or
digital technology is really short and
it's been it's punctuated by a small
number of things. Microprocessors,
personal computers, the internet, maybe
mobile, now there's AI. I think AI is
bigger than all these things. And all of
these things disrupted essentially all
categories.
So, not only is this likely disrupt all
the categories, it's going to disrupt it
in the most aggressive violent ways. And
if you're not in it, you're about to get
kicked out of all of it. And so, my
strongest advice is roll your sleeves
up, figure out what's going to disrupt
you, have fun with it. You need to bring
in actual talent.
We and I would be nothing if we didn't
have actual AI scientists and leaders.
It's the only way we can be successful
here. We have an incredible person who
by the time this is out will have
received a promotion to chief AI
officer. I keep announcing all these
things and
>> confidence to you,
>> Fergle Reed. And he's just one of the
very best in AI applications and we
happened to be working with him for many
years. So part of it is finding the
talent and part of it is bringing in the
young talent too. AI is kind of a young
man's game. And I'm young, but I'm not
as young as a lot of the kids building
AI. And so learning to empower and
enable them and learn from them, too, is
a really big deal. And unfortunately,
part of what you learn from them is the
only way you're going to win right now
is if you work your ass off. Because all
these little AI companies run by kids in
their 20s are literally
working 12 hours a day, literally 365
days a year. No joke. All of them. And
that's not a fun idea for many of us,
especially those who've grown up. Some
some people in our generation have kids
or a lot of them do. There's like
comfort and stability in your life. You
don't want to work like that. But if you
want in, that's part of the price. And
that's how so many of these young new AI
companies are going to win cuz very few
of the previous generation companies are
willing to make all of those changes and
go all the way in. And so my actual
advice, which is not that helpful, is
that if founders of previous generation
companies are themselves not willing to
roll up their sleeves and get into it
and work as hard as the kids, hire a
kid. You can be a chairperson like I
was. Have a lot of fun. You can mentor
the kid. Hire a kid cuz you're in the
wrong job, buddy.
>> I love how pragmatic this device is. And
what's interesting is you talk about 12
hours a day every day. It's like we're
trying to get close to what agents are
doing. Uh, which is half that's
basically 50% agents.
>> But that that's not just a poetic cute
phrase say thing to say. That comes from
something very real, which is these
younger companies know how to use AI in
ways that the older companies don't. The
younger companies are vibe coding and
using AI for their creative work and for
their job descriptions. I guarantee you
go to companies of our generation and
even we have had to push people you go
to companies of our generation
most people in most organizations
particularly nontechnical organizations
they're not using any AI maybe they're
starting to use chat GPT to write a job
description but they're not doing it by
default uh and so
that's more than a joke you're competing
with young companies that are in part
AI. This reminds me I did a interview
with the Perplexity founders. Uh it was
I just checked April 2024 so just over a
year ago and they were saying that the
way they operated and this sounded so
crazy at the time is anytime they were
they had a question for anyone else on
the team they first asked chat GBT about
it and then they ask the person I was
like that is insane and that was just
like obvious that's what we all do now
just like hey I'm just going to talk
voice what
>> it's a it's a prime example
>> they're doing many such things um when I
say 365 days a year they're company I
think of because they're doing exactly
that. All these young companies are
doing wild, weird and ridiculous things
that people you're in and my age kind of
chuckle at. But it's
business as usual for them. So there's a
just a big mind shift, cultural shift,
and there's a culture clash of the
previous generation versus the the new
generation. And the sooner you kind of
wrap your head around that, the sooner
you can start to unstake yourself, I
think. And just to build on that, like
this sounds crazy to work this hard.
Like it sounds very stressful, not fun.
Why would I do this? This sucks. But at
the same time, this is, as you said,
such an unusual, rare opportunity.
There's so much opportunity. There's so
much wealth being created. There's so
many businesses being created. This is
the time if you were to ever work really
hard, this is a good time to do it.
>> I I think so. I don't actually generally
promote working that hard. I try to not
fetishize it. I actually think a life
well-lived
includes taking slow walks in nature
where you're not thinking about aor
growth or hiring your chief revenue
officer. You know, not going to eight
meetings a day. Maybe you should go to
no meetings a day. Certainly not working
12 hours a day. I don't actually promote
that
in general as a thing one should do with
their life.
I'm simply saying that
if you want to compete and and enjoy
success in this age, which means you
need to be doing AI, that is the price.
So you either decide to pay the price or
get out. Don't halfass it. You see all
these companies saying we do AI and they
just sprinkle a little bit of crappy AI
and they've got the same cultures. It
won't work. The one thing I will say,
the one little asterisk to my first
point is that all great people and great
things have been achieved through hard
work. And so
I'm speaking out of both sides of my
mouth here to younger people to let them
know that every way of living is valid,
but people who have achieved things have
always worked hard and they find a way
to enjoy it too. and particularly in
2025 in AI.
>> I want to follow this thread. I was
gonna ask you this earlier, but I
didn't. And I want to see if this takes
us somewhere interesting. Just watching
you speak and talk. You're very
self-reflective, very centered. Uh you
you have these really good breaths you
take when you think about something.
>> I met you a long time ago randomly at a
party when you were just starting
intercom. I don't think you were like
that. Was there during this kind of
two-year period, was there kind of a
transformation that you went through to
kind of
>> Absolutely. Yeah. There there's a couple
things. First, I mean, there's three
things that come to mind.
Working in a startup for 14 years has a
certain way of kicking you in the head
many times a day that either kills you
or makes you far stronger. So, that's
one piece. There's no elegance to that
point, but I think we can all enchure
that that level of experience teaches
you something. You grow up very fast.
Point two is
I did a lot of therapy. I found this
amazing guy 12 years ago. He started a
couple of his own tech companies and
talked them public. He only coached and
was a therapist to CEOs. He's now kind
of in a later stage of his career, but
this amazing guy, his name is Yosi
Amram. Amazing guy. I just landed on my
feet. I just didn't know who I was
dealing with. But, you know, one of the
greatest minds and teachers
and of kind of the last I don't know
many decades. people don't even know
him, but he's he's he's thought and
worked with many CEOs
and he just helped me get to know me and
take time for myself. And people like to
hate on therapy right now. I think a lot
of therapy sucks and a lot of therapists
are not good and they fear that actually
therapy will labboize them and turn them
into thumb sucking naval gazing
you know soft
irrelevant losers that won't have that
edge anymore. And the interesting thing
about 12 years of weekly therapy and
spiritual work is that
it takes your edges off. But they are
all edges that are super
counterproductive. All the edges that
made you an got you triggered,
miscommunicated or like you know fought
back when it when you were insecure,
they take all the edges away.
Then help you see yourself and love
yourself so much more for who you are.
be completely unafraid to acknowledge
the things you're not good at but own
the things you are.
And in understanding yourself, you
understand others better and can
communicate in a substantially more
connected and authentic way. Great great
therapy and has to be great is a recipe
for brilliant leadership in my opinion.
And then the third part is
two years away where I ran away where I
was sick. Revenue growth wasn't doing so
hot. I unsuccessfully
tried to defend myself from a bunch of
fake in the in the newspapers.
I mean, I was beat up. And in a moment
like that,
your ego, your s any sense you have of
your greatness is eviscerated. And
that's painful. It it can be so painful
that many people don't come back from
it. And I credit the 10 years at that
point or nine years of therapy I did at
that point plus the support of this
therapist and coach that I had to
surviving it. But if you can survive it,
what you end up with on the other side
is all of those insecure well a lot of
the insecurities and all that ego
that made you super
ineffective,
jealous or triggered for all sorts of
different reasons, it's gone. And your
image that you are this perfect
brilliant leader that all successful
founders form when they are successful
had to die. And the reason that's so
good is that that's so limiting. When
you have this ego identity of yourself
about how amazing you are, then
any moment that challenges that is super
scary. Anyone who questions it is
offensive. And so I credit wherever I am
today and I have decades of learning
still to go to those three components.
And I feel super fortunate to have had
all of them. Even though the last one
sucked, I can finally say, "Wow, it
really helped."
>> Thank you for sharing all that. Um,
>> yeah,
>> I'm glad I went there. I want to show
you something that I randomly have in my
office, my wife just got me, that I
think you're going to love. It's a It's
a piece of art that I think will
resonate with
>> Yeah. What am I looking at here? So,
it's a hand.
>> It's a hand with a snap. And then let me
see if he can see what it says.
>> I can't see what it says. It says ego
death now.
>> Right.
>> Look at this.
>> Good. Exactly.
>> There it is.
>> May all our egos peacefully
become smaller and leave this mortal
coil that the reality is like none of
our egos ever die. And even great there
was you know Ram Das is this great
spiritual teacher who died a few years
ago and someone asked him on his
deathbed something like you know how did
you get over your or your ego
and he said I never did just the edges
got smoothed away. This is a guy who had
like 70 years of the deepest, wildest
spiritual work. He acknowledged, "No,
still my same self." So the ego is still
there and we actually need to
acknowledge it and love it. And when you
when you acknowledge it, then it's not a
surprise when you're like a little
jealous. You're like, "Huh, I'm jealous.
That's funny." Okay. And it's all it's
all good. Reminds me of Daniel Conorman
who wrote all these books about biases
that we have and like here's all the
ways we're flawed. People ask him, "Have
you like learned to live more
rationally?" He's like, "Not not at all.
Knowing all these things about how we're
flawed in the way we think all these
bices doesn't actually I can't use it in
life.
>> We're human. We should let ourselves be
human. I think it's beautiful. We're
we're we're logic systems, but we're
also heart systems and body systems and
soul systems. So, all of it is good.
>> Okay. I want to go in a completely
different direction. The last thing I
want to talk about, I I needed to
mention this. I don't know if you've
seen this, but I've been doing research
on which companies produce the best
product leaders. And I've been doing
this by looking at which alumni of
companies go on to become CPOS at the
highest rate, get promoted the most at
their next job, become the first product
manager at a future through startup,
start their own companies. Intercom has
come in number one across this research
next to like Palunteer and Stripe,
Revolute.
So the question this begs is what are
you what are you guys doing that
produces such great product leaders?
There's kind of like the hiring piece
and then there's the what they do at
intercom piece. So what do you think
what do you think is is is creating
these sort of really big successes for
your alumni group.
>> Yeah I don't have a really succinct
answer unfortunately I can say in the
abstract our culture is a very producty
culture. So like myself and Dez, you
know there was four founders and me and
Dez trainer
drove a lot like all the strategy we're
product guys you know I was I was like a
a I was a software designer you know I
studied computer science so I'm
technical but never did it
professionally so the first part is that
just product innovation design just c
was just core to our culture and people
always picked up on that so I think good
people wanted to work here and we were
good
finding good people. The other part was
that because we had this sprawling
strategy, we had all these products that
we needed a complex structure for and
that included
lots of PMs and PM groups that we gave a
lot of autonomy to. And so like kind of
the product of our big messy strategy
was that we had PMs that got to act like
mini CEOs. And so I think that they got
to learn
the broader skill sets beyond designing
wireframes and interviewing some
customers. They really owned it like a
mini CEO to some degree. I think there's
one other thing which is you know part
to our approach was this deeply first
principles uh thinking methodology
almost to a fault although I don't think
it's a fault. We would I and we would
create frameworks for everything. It's
like okay we want to do these events.
Who are the events for? What is the
ultimate goal of the event? What's the
mechanism by which events work? What are
other mechanisms that can achieve that
same goal? How do we define success for
an event like that? How does the user or
the attendee define value? what other
things do those people find valuable and
like we create this like complex systems
to try and approach everything but the
net effect was we'd have really joined
up considered strategy and it's
everywhere like Paul Adams our chief
product officer I didn't even plan to
show this he made this book recently the
AI age and the transformation of
customer service and it's a bunch of
frameworks for how to think about AI
etc So it's part of what we do and so we
would hire people who are good at that
but we teach that that's teachable and
not everyone does that and so the
conversations that Dez and I would have
you know we used to love being on
whiteboards our very first office our
own office in Dublin
was a tiny office one wall was like four
five computer computers the other wall
was just all whiteboards we loved that
we had a whiteboard wall in our next
office we had a room, square room, and
all walls were whiteboards. So, we just
love to like draw diagrams. So, you can
teach all that stuff. So, yeah, it's
just all that good energy, product,
product energy, first principles, the
people we chose. And and on the founder
side, I was talking to Dez about this
this morning, like why have so many
intercom people gone on to be founders?
I think it's because we we hired founder
types. And my pitch to people was always
come to intercom, figure out how great
companies are built and build it with us
and then go on to start your own. I
would say that often at all hands. But
the irony is that the people we hired
back then, the founder types were
probably not great employees, right?
They were better founders. I'm not a
good employee. And so I it'll be
interesting to see if this current
cohort, we'll get many founders out of
this current cohort, but will they
convert as well as they did before?
because we're now hiring people who want
to be part of something bigger. They're
more mature and grown up, more stable
and consistent. They're part of, you
know, they have a certain expertise and
a certain lane they want to work in. And
maybe they're not the crazy types that
went on to start companies, but it's
wild. I did see some of that research by
you, particularly the one where you show
the the companies ranked by the number
of founders that they have, and I'm
like, what is happening? I was as surp I
was as surprised that we were that high
as you were because there are many other
great companies on that list. So
surprised and proud.
>> I love I love when people say I don't
really have like a clear answer and then
you have exactly a clear answer
>> and it resonates uh a a lot with other
companies on this list that I've had on
of what the themes are and I'll just
reflect back a few of them. One is
complexity. That comes up a lot. So like
and interestingly most of the other
companies in list I'll read them real
quick intercom palentia revolute N26
Dropbox chime stripe and then Coinbase
and notions down there so many are
fintech almost all are fintech
>> right
>> and the complexity there is really high
so there's like really interesting trend
there just like complexity ownership is
another one that comes up a lot mini cos
GMs kind of roles
>> right
>> um first principles thinking and just
like going to the bare metal comes up a
lot in these conversations
>> yes
>> and then hiring senior people hiring
foundary types.
>> Yes. Like Stripe did a lot of that. I
think Stripe did a lot of first
principal stuff and found types.
>> The uh the other thing we're not we
didn't even talk about this but you guys
invented rice. You guys popularized jobs
to be done. Like speaking of frameworks,
you guys are a wealth of frameworks that
we all used
>> drowning in frameworks. Yeah.
>> Drowning slash changing the way everyone
builds product in a really positive way.
>> Okay. Um, is there anything else that
you wanted to touch on or leave
listeners with before we get to a very
exciting lightning round?
>> When someone like me comes on a podcast
like this, they always have an ulterior
motive and that's healthy and good. It's
part of the transaction. Some of it is
to, you know, enjoy feeling like an
expert. But my ulterior motive today is
to make sure that people understand that
intercom is a fundamentally different
type of latestage company. We are a
large old startup. Every single way in
which we work is as a startup and are
competing with and crushing the actual
startup competition in our agent
categories. And the reason that that's
important for people to know is just
like I said earlier that
the handicap that good but latestage
companies have is that they're late
stage and people don't mentally put them
in the same
box. They just don't imagine these older
companies. If if I told you that IBM had
made the most wildly innovative
coding assistant,
you'd find it hard to believe. Most
people would. It's maybe so interesting
such that it would stick in your mind
and you'd go look at it. But by default,
people aren't going to look at IBM. And
so
I want people to take a new look at
Intercom because it's a brand new
company. And our mission is to help
every single type of business deliver
impeccable, incredible,
beautiful
personal service to every single one of
their users. And people, many thousands
of people are using Finn for that today.
So go check out Finn, please. Finn.ai.
>> And I don't know if you mentioned this
at the beginning, but let's mention it.
you you predict that you'll be the
fastest growing company across if you
were to look at all public software
companies next year.
>> So maybe you know two years ago we were
in the low single digits growth rate. We
doubled our growth rate and last year we
were in the low double digits.
This year we're in the 15th percentile
of all public software companies. So you
take the 120 something public software
companies were in the 15th percentile.
So we're like getting up there fast. And
if we sustain this trajectory, and it's
obviously dangerous to put these types
of things out publicly, but you know,
I'll tell you, I look at the charts and
it's hard not to imagine where this uh
goes. I think we're going to find
ourselves being the fastest growing out
of all relative to all public software
companies. Uh so let's let's see. But
that's the level of shock, surprise, and
transformation that has actually
happened here all because of Finn. So,
you know, check in with me in a year and
maybe I'll be embarrassed or maybe I'll
be feeling a genius
>> or underelling it. This is just reflects
back on exactly how I started our
conversation. You've done something
extraordinary in intercom and I'm really
happy that we're hearing that we're
sharing this story.
>> Thank you.
>> With that, we've reached our very
exciting lightning round. I've got five
questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Please. Ready.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people? So I I found I lost the habit of
reading as I started to get more and
more stressed um with my startup and so
I would listen to audio books here and
there but the the most recent book I
read is a book called
Nuclear War Scenario and
it's a very much a non-fiction and
scared the out of me. So if you
like nightmares it'll be beautiful
bedtime reading.
>> Excellent.
>> Yeah. What's a recent movie or TV show
you've really enjoyed? I love movies. I
I want TV to be better, but I very
rarely find TV to be great. The the one
the the first and last TV show I loved
was True Detective 1. It was just like
incredible. But the last movie I watched
was 28 Years Later and that's by Danny
Bole. I'm I'm like I you know I was born
in the 80s grew up as a kid in the 90s
and so grew up with you know you know
train spotting was 28 days later then he
made a movie called Sunshine. So 28
years later is a type of movie that's
just not made anymore. It's the most '
90s movie made since the '9s. It's like
very rock and roll and also deeply
touching. So I was really surprised by
that. I bet I would love to know the
younger generations that are watching
this what they may think. They may hate
it,
>> but I love 28 years later.
>> So, this is the same person that made 28
days later, 29 years
later.
>> Wow. Okay. Very cool. Didn't know about
that.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you have a favorite product you
recently discovered that you really
love? Could be a gadget, could be an
app, could be clothes.
>> So, I I like I very rarely like
products. I'm such a perfectionist that
it has to be really simple with very
little moving parts like a bow to
actually be like good. I've started to
get more into coffee. I've been buying
products by Fellow. They're remarkably
good for consumer products like
different. It's a on a different level.
So there's some sort of level of taste
and craft happening there that I don't
see in basically any other consumer
hardware type products.
And of all things, I bought a Porsche
911 recently and that is a beautiful
product. The interiors are exquisite and
there's still a bunch of that is
going to annoy you. So it's like far
from perfect. So
yeah, perfectionism is
sometimes a gift if you're in the
business of creating products, but also
quite the curse. You're never happy.
Including with the Porsche 911.
>> I think that's the third time someone
recommended a car. Someone recommend I
think Bos at Facebook recommended this
fancy Mercedes and then someone once
suggested a Rivian. So now we got
Porsche on the list. I always thought
maybe one day I'll give someone all the
prizes all the products people have ever
mentioned in this and those are getting
those are getting you know Porsche might
be a little high. Okay, two more
questions. Do you have a favorite life
motto that you find yourself repeating
coming back to in work or in life
sharing with friends?
>> You know it's it it's it's it's trit.
It's not sophisticated,
you know, and it's more of a concept
than a phrase, but it's something around
the idea that life is short. I'm just so
aware that time ticks by and we all live
on autopilot.
So much of what we do is inspired by
either our insecurities or things that
other people we look up to or envy do.
Very rarely making contact with what we
really want and following our hearts and
our heads. And yeah, we just kind of
like get stuck in these lanes and just
live out our days. And certainly when
you get, you know, I'm 41 now. You get
to 41
and thankfully still very young. Anyone
in their 40s, congrats. Should feel good
about that.
>> But I know if you're in your 20s or 30s,
40 feels old. But when you're when
you're in your 40s,
my experience is that the weeks and the
months and then the years go by. Like
it's not a big deal. I'm like back at
intercom two and a half years now to to
to any of these kids in AI in their 20s.
If they don't get something done or
achieved by next month, they'll be so
disappointed in themselves and so
impatient. And in some ways, at least
when it comes to productivity, they're
better at getting more out of the time.
But I'm now trying to get more life out
of the time, too. So yeah, just that's
if if there is a motto, it's like life
is short or like momento mory, you know,
we're all on the way out, so make the
use of what you've got.
>> Fun fact, I built an app once called
savorable that helped you savor the
moment. It's called savorable, and it
sent you a text every few hours, I don't
know, maybe once a day uh with a little
reminder of way to sa savor the moment.
And one of the texts was just like,
remember, you will die.
>> Yeah. And and and the problem is that
like even that idea,
we don't we forget it instantly. And if
you start getting text every day, you'll
ignore the text. Like by default, we
just don't want to acknowledge that
reality on a day-to-day basis. Maybe
that's important.
>> Yeah. Maybe for the best.
>> Yeah.
Okay. Final question. Speaking of apps,
I was doing research on you in
preparation for this and I didn't
realize you built Twitter back in the
day.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> I loved Twitter. I found it so fun. It
basically told you anytime someone
unfollowed you on Twitter,
>> right?
>> Uh so the question is just what happened
to that app?
>> Um I think we eventually sold it for
like 14K.
>> Wow.
>> Um on some
>> on one of these I think there's a
website called Flip It where you could
sell websites. It really blew up. It was
like a little experiment.
>> Kind of a social experiment. It was the
first time that I had this feeling that
there's no reason
someone wouldn't want to use this. Like
obviously people are going to want to
use this. And it was really instructive
for me because it taught me that that
feeling is possible. You meet so many
founders, young founders particularly,
and they don't have a sense within
themselves about the value of the stuff
they're building. Will this be good?
Let's get customer feedback. And it is
possible to build things that you deeply
know make sense. And that's why my
formula for building things was to
always build things for myself. And that
was what Twitter was like. You know,
followers go up, followers go down. At
that point in time, people had 100
followers or 200 followers and you'd
want to know who who's not my friend
anymore.
>> Oh man, I love that. that was your bar
of like that led you to this success
later is like if it's as good as Twitter
in terms of product market fit and so
>> I mean it was it had the best fit ever
about everyone on Twitter tried to sign
up for it
>> and it broke
>> well I loved it uh Owen thank you so
much for doing this uh I love just how
real and open you are about everything
and just how uh much insight you have to
share uh I also just love the vibe I
feel like I just am more centered just
watching you
>> Oh thank you speak. Uh, two final
questions. Where can folks check out
Finn, follow you if they want to follow
up on anything? And then, how can
listeners be useful to you?
>> Check out Finn. Finn. AI. If they want
to follow me, I'm E O G H A N on
Twitter. So, it's Irish spelling of own.
But if they want to be helpful to me,
you know, I'd love them to try Finn. I'd
love them to, you know, have their
friends that run any kind of customer
operations try it, too. Um, this AI
thing is noisy. There's so much hype,
but
it's also really real. And the weird
thing about Finn, even relative to the
coding apps, the coding apps are blowing
up. And yet, there's a lot of people
experimenting and kicking tires. You
can't kick tires with Finn. We only
deliver value when you expose it to your
customers and it closes tickets and
makes them happy. And so, like, AI is
really, really happening. And so if you
know anyone out there that has
customers, they should be using Finn.
It's it's it's the smartest, cheapest,
easiest way to dramatically enhance
their business. So if they do that,
they'll be helping me sincerely.
>> I'm sold. Owen, Owen, thank you so much
for being here.
>> Pretty fun.
>> This was amazing.
>> Yeah. Thank you.
>> Bye, everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.